hello this is pressure Locker this is
the fourth video in the series on how to
solve the Rubik's Cube where I explain
how to solve the middle layer we've
solved the first layer which means we
have all of the edge pieces matching the
center and all of the corner pieces in
the correct position with the correct
orientation since the white layer is
completely solved what we're going to do
is turn the cube upside down this will
make it easier for us to see the pieces
that we want to identify to solve the
middle layer the middle layer consists
of four pieces with two colors each so
let's see if any of these edge pieces
are on the top so here we identify one
of the pieces which is red and green and
we'll rotate the red side so it matches
the red side here we have an orange and
blue face we'll deal with that in a
moment
so now we have red matching the red side
and we want to move this to the right so
we're looking at the red side we're
matching the red side and we need to
move this edge piece to the right so
here's how we can do that without
messing anything else up we go u R u
prime R Prime
you prime F prime you and finally F and
lo and behold we've moved the edge piece
to the middle layer in the correct
orientation and we have a mess anything
else up so we'll continue solving the
middle layer we'll look for any of the
edge pieces that are on the top and here
we identify red and blue so we're going
to rotate this until the red matches the
red Center and now we need to move this
piece to the left so this is pretty much
the same move as when we moved it to the
right
but it'll be relative to the left so we
go U prime L prime u L
you AF
you Prime and F Prime and now we put
this red and blue piece in the correct
position and every other piece that
we've solved so far in the bottom layer
and the middle layer has stayed in
position so now we're going to keep
looking for edge pieces so here we have
an orange and green piece and we're
going to want to move we match the
orange to the center and we want to move
this to the left so we do our same
sequence of moves for that we go u prime
L prime u L u F u Prime and F Prime
we have one final piece this is orange
and blue and we need to move it to the
right so we're going to use the move
which moves it to the right
that's u R u prime R prime u prime F
prime u and F and now we've solved the
entire middle layer but before I go on
to the next video I'm just going to show
you one last thing in this case we had
all of the edge pieces that were on the
top and we simply moved them to where
they need it to be but it might happen
while you're solving a cube that you end
up in an unlucky situation so here's an
example where while we're looking around
you know we have this red and green
piece that's stuck and sometimes you may
you may need to get that piece unstuck
so if it's not on the top it's just
stuck in the middle layer you need to
get that to the top layer so in order to
do that what you could do is you can use
you can you know move one of the other
pieces there so here we have an edge
piece that's on the top and we want to
move it to the right so we use our move
which gets that piece to the right side
and what that'll do is that'll you know
that'll take out the edge piece that was
in the wrong spot and bump it up to the
top layer so once we do that that red
and green piece we've moved it to the
top and now we can go ahead and solve
the rest of the cube using the moves of
left and right to get to the middle
layer I'll go ahead and do that and now
we have to move this to the left so I'll
take care of that
and using those two moves of left and
right we can always solve the middle
layer I hope you liked this video please
click through to find out how to solve
the third and final layer please
subscribe to my channel you can support
me on patreon catch me on my blog mind
your decisions on Twitter at presh tall
Walker and you can get my books listed
on my website